**Background**

For the ETL mini project, you will work with a partner to practice building an ETL pipeline using Python, Pandas, and either Python dictionary methods or regular expressions to extract and transform the data. After you transform the data, you'll create four CSV files and use the CSV file data to create an ERD and a table schema. Finally, you’ll upload the CSV file data into a Postgres database. Since this is a one-week project, make sure that you have done at least half of your project before the third day of class to stay on track. Although you and your partner will divide the work, it’s essential to collaborate and communicate while working on different parts of the project. Be sure to check in with your partner regularly and offer support.

**Content**

Have one member of your group create a new repository, named Crowdfunding_ETL, for this project. Add your partner as a collaborator. Do not add this project to an existing repository. Clone the new repository to your computer. Have one person rename the ETL_Mini_Project_starter_code.ipynb file with the first name initial and last name of each member of the group, for example, ETL_Mini_Project_NRomanoff_JSmith.ipynb. Then, add this Jupyter notebook file and the Resources folder containing the crowdfunding.xlsx and the contacts.xlsx files to your repository. Push the changes to GitHub. Have your partner pull the changes, so both of you have the same notebook available on your computer. As you work through the project deliverables, you may find it helpful to break up the work across other notebooks that you each work on individually. However, once complete, please combine all the subsections back into the final ETL_Mini_Project notebook.

**Hints**

To split each "category & sub-category" column value into "category" and "subcategory" column values, use df[["new_column1","new_column2"]] = df["column"].str.split(). Make sure to pass the correct parameters to the split() function. To get the unique category and subcategory values from the "category" and "subcategory" columns, create a NumPy array where the array length equals the number of unique categories and unique subcategories from each column. For information about how to do so, see numpy.arangeLinks to an external site. in the NumPy documentation. To create the category and subcategory identification numbers, use a list comprehension to add the "cat" string or the "subcat" string to each number in the category or the subcategory array, respectively. For more information about creating a new Pandas DataFrame, see the pandas.DataFrameLinks to an external site. in the Pandas documentation. To convert the "goal" and "pledged" columns to the float data type, use the astype() method. To convert the "launch_date" and "end_date" UTC times to the datetime format, see the Transform_Grocery_Orders_Solved.ipynb activity solution. For more information about how to add the "category_id" and "subcategory_id" unique identification numbers to the campaign DataFrame, see the pandas.DataFrame.mergeLinks to an external site. in the Pandas documentation.
